So let's now have a look
at this src folder
because that is where we will spend the majority
of our time, that is where we will write our React code.
And the first thing you'll notice here
in this starting project,
which I provided in the last lecture
that we have two JavaScript and one CSS file.
And the most important takeaway here,
which I really wanna emphasize right away
is that React code is just JavaScript code.
We are just going to write some JavaScript code.
Throughout the entire course,
we're going to use React features
and some special syntax introduced by React,
but ultimately, it'll all be just JavaScript.
Now, let's start with the index.js file.
You don't see it anywhere but I can tell you
that this is actually the first code file,
which will be executed
whenever this page is loaded.
So whenever you visit localhost:3000 here at the moment,
this index JavaScript file holds the code,
which is executed initially.
Though I will also say right away
that it's not exactly that code
but a transformed version of that code.
Remember when I said that our project setup here involves
some scripts, which transform and optimize the code?
Yeah, that is happening behind the scenes.
Basically, we will write the code
in a easy-to-read developer-friendly way
with some syntactic sugar,
which makes our life as a developer easier
but we'll write code which wouldn't run like this
in the browser.
And especially not in all supported browsers.
Therefore, the npm start process,
which we started here,
which started this development server,
which is watching our code,
this process will not just watch our code
and then take it and deliver it to the browser,
but before it delivers it,
it will transform it.
So that certain extra features work
in the browser, even they wouldn't work
if just this code would be taken.
For example, this import here
where we import a CSS file into a JavaScript file.
That's not something which would work in regular JavaScript.
That would be an invalid syntax.
You can't import CSS into JavaScript.
Well, here in this project setup, it does work.
Here in the end,
it tells this npm start process we could say
that we simply want to include this index.css file
into our overall application.
That the CSS code in there should be considered
and should be injected into this page,
which is shown here on the screen.
And that's why the styles defined in there,
like the font family
but also the background color of the body
are picked up here on the screen,
on the page that we see.
Another example for syntax,
which is not regular JavaScript syntax
would be this here.
It looks like some kind of HTML code
inside of a JavaScript file.
And normally, this also wouldn't work.
Well, again, here it does work
but only because this is transformed
before it's delivered to the browser.
And for the moment, you just need
to be aware of that,
that those transformations happen,
and that the idea of that simply
is that we can write code
in a nice way, in a easy way
and then still we have code in the end,
which runs in all browsers.
Now, the fact that the index.js file
is the first file to be executed
is just something you have to know.
I'm telling you that this is the case
because indeed, it is.
And it's one of the few things you need to remember.
Index.js here is the first file to execute.
Now, what's that file doing though?
What's happening here?
Well, we are importing ReactDOM from react-dom,
which in the end means we're importing something,
some ReactDOM object
from the react-dom third-party library,
which is one of our dependencies,
which is downloaded and installed locally.
Now, in the package.json file,
you actually see two React dependencies,
react just like that
and then this react-dom thing.
And whilst this indeed technically
are two separate packages,
you can think of that as React, the library.
It's split across two packages
with different responsibilities
but in the end, ReactDOM and React,
these two dependencies together form the React library,
which we're going to learn all about in this course.
So whenever we import something from React,
or from ReactDOM,
it's basically both all about React,
and we're using React features
as we're doing it here in index.js
where we are importing from ReactDOM.
This simply makes a feature exposed
by that library available
inside of this index.js file
because that's how modern JavaScript works in general.
If you define a feature,
let's say a function in file A,
and you wanna use it in file B
to split your code across multiple files
to keep every file small and manageable,
then you have to export the feature,
which you wanna use in file B in file A,
and then import it in file B.
And that's what we're doing here.
ReactDOM, this package, is exporting some React DOM object,
and we're importing it here into index.js.
And we are importing ReactDOM into index.js
to then call a method on it, the createRoot method.
This creates basically the main entry point,
the main hook of the overall user interface you are
about to build with React.
That's the idea behind createRoot,
and what this does in the end
is it tells React where this React application,
this user interface, which you build with React in the end
should be placed in the web page that is loaded.
And that leads us to one other file,
the index.html file in that public folder.
This folder is a folder in which we will rarely work
but it holds one important file.
This index.html file.
This is the single HTML file,
which is in the end loaded by the browser here.
This is basically the only HTML file
that is being used by this overall React application
because it's a so-called single page application.
It has a single HTML file
and all subsequent changes on the user interface,
on the web page will be handled by React.
And it's this single HTML file
that is the entry point,
the place where the React-driven user interface
should be rendered into so to say.
And in this index.html file,
we've got a regular HTML document structure,
and if we have a look at the body,
you will find a div like this in here.
A div with the id root in this case.
That's a regular div,
which actually doesn't hold any content,
but that's the div where we want
to attach or inject our React-driven user interface.
So the user interface,
which we will build with React.
And you're going to learn how that works
throughout this course, of course.
So it's this div
where the React-based user interface should be rendered into
and therefore, in index.js,
it's this div with the id root,
as you just saw.
Remember, we have the id root on that div,
which we select here with some regular JavaScript code,
and then we use a method from the React library,
from the ReactDOM library to be precise,
which is part of the React library though
to tell React that this should be the root
of our React application,
the main place where the React application gets rendered to
so to say.
That's what createRoot does.
Then we store this root object in a constant or variable,
and then on that object, on that root object,
we can call the render method
to tell React what should be rendered in that div
that we selected here.
And you could, by the way, of course,
also select other elements like spans
or paragraphs but a div is the most common root element
that is selected.
And we're in the end telling ReactDOM
that we wanna render something,
we'll have a look at that in a second in this place
so that basically, the content of this div
and as you can tell, there is no content,
so what's inside of this div
should be replaced with that.
So, of course, that brings up another question.
What is that app thing here?
Well, first of all,
it's also something which we're importing.
We're importing App from the App file,
and that's this App.js file.
You just may omit and you should omit .js
as the extension in your imports here.
If it's another file, like a CSS file,
you have to add it
but if it's a third-party library
or one of your JS files, you omit the .js.
Now, we can tell that it's one of our files
because we have a relative import path here,
starting with ./
which means please look in the same folder
as this index.js file is in.
And then use the App.js file.
So this file here.
And from that file, we import App.
And then we do something with it
but that is definitely not regular JavaScript syntax here.
Indeed, it isn't.
This is a syntax called JSX
and I'll come back to it in a second.
But before I come back to that,
there's one key thing you've gotta know about App.
App, in the end, is a component,
and you might remember,
components are important.
Here we see our first component in action.
It's this App component,
which we, in the end, render in the place
of that element with an id of root.
So in place of that div
or inside of that div to be precise.
So therefore, let's now have a look at this App.js file.
And this is a fairly trivial file.
It holds a function named App
and we then export this function
because as I mentioned,
in modern JavaScript, if you have something,
like a function or a class
or an object defined in one file
and you wanna use it in another file,
you have to export and import it.
So here in App.js where this function is defined,
we export it, and then we import it in index.js,
and that's how these two files are connected
and how we can use a feature,
in this case, a function defined in App.js
inside of index.js.
Now, what's this App.js function doing though?
Not much as you can tell.
It's a function named App.
Starting with a capital character
might be a bit strange
but it's valid JavaScript syntax.
And then all we do in here is we return something.
But what we return again is strange.
It's HTML code inside of a JavaScript file.
And again, that's not something you regularly see.
It's also not something we're used to.
And it's also not valid JavaScript code normally.
Yet here, everything seems to work.
The reason for that
is that this is a feature called JSX.
It's a special syntax invented
and introduced by the React team,
and it works in these JavaScript files
because of our overall project setup
and again, because of these transformation steps,
which are running behind the scenes.
But let's take a closer look at JSX,
and what it is, and how it works in the next lecture.